And as we close out, I wanna be honest and
transparent with you on mistakes to avoid.
Don't be like me, I've probably
made some of these mistakes, and
sometimes multiple times.
Mistakes to avoid.
Micromanaging, we talked about why that's
one of the worst things to do, but it's
one of the easiest traps to fall into,
cuz you feel like you're doing something.
But really, you don't trust your team,
you're not delegating effectively, and
it's not a good use of your time.
I've definitely done this,
and I've tried to step back.
I've gotten feedback before on how I show
up, I'm not telling people what to do, but
some feedback I got early in this year,
we do 360 feedback once a year at Netflix.
Some people are familiar with that
process, but just it's time for
all the company to give feedback to
each other, which I enjoy now more,
I didn't used to.
But feedback I've gotten was,
Jim, you're too technical,
you're too in the weeds
on technical decisions.
And I was like, and I got that from a few
people, and I was like, I thought I was
being a good engineering manager, but
it turns out I was slowing the team down.
I was slowing people down by
going in the wrong direction, or
just getting hung up on the nuances
that I didn't even know.
And that's a form of micromanagement too.
So I've had to step back and
ask broader questions.
What are the pros and cons?
What are the alternatives?
Those sort of questions,
rather than being in the weeds.
Overpromising, a mistake I made early on,
too.
Everybody's like, Jim,
can your team do that?
Yeah, totally, no problem.
Jim, can your team do that?
Yeah, totally.
Cuz you wanna show up well and
impress your partners.
But it turns out taking on all these other
requests were slowing down the things that
were in flight for my team, and
I was just slowing them down by promising.
So the better solution is, you don't have
to say no immediately, but saying, okay,
let me bring that to the team and I'll
come back to you on where we can fit this
in, rather than just trying to
please people right off the bat.
Trying to stay too close to the code.
I still see this, I see it a lot.
Managers in pull requests,
commenting on individual lines of code.
Again, depending on your role, the size of
the team where you need to be, maybe, but
generally, if you're at that level, you're
probably too close to what's happening.
You probably don't need to be that close,
or you need to hire and build people up.
Who can do that for you?
Hire a senior engineer who can do that for
you.
That's not the best use of your time.
Overthinking decisions and
second-guessing, this is me, 100%.
Second-guessed everything I did.
Is this the right format for
a team meeting?
Is this a good off-site?
I put so much pressure on myself and
I just stress myself to a bad place.
And really, it's just make a decision,
make sure it's well reasoned,
make sure you get a lot of feedback on it,
but just do it.
And understand, you're gonna screw it up,
don't be too hard on yourself.
And not letting go, especially if
you're taking on a team that you wrote
the service or the code and
you're super familiar with the code base.
Trying to shepherd it and trying to baby
it still, cuz you're like, you wrote it,
it's my thing, you gotta let that go.
You won't be effective as a leader
if you're too close in the code.
And this is really hard to do,
especially as a software engineer, or
former recovering software engineer.
>> [LAUGH]
>> And finally,
putting too much pressure on yourself.
You're like, people are looking at me now.
I don't know if you remember the dark days
of puberty, where you're a teenager and
you feel like everybody's
looking at you all the time.
And it turns out nobody cares about you,
everybody cares about themselves, and
that's just how humans are.
When you become an engineering manager,
you're like, everybody's looking at me,
everybody's expecting
these things from me.
When really it's not as bad as you think.
But when you first take it on,
you're like, I gotta do this,
the team should be performing.
I gotta have answers to all
these solutions or problems, and
you really don't.
Take your time, be curious,
be empathetic, and listen,
but don't put too much pressure on
yourself, that will come over time.
The pressure will come, so
don't do it to yourself.